S-Bahn capacity
As mentioned previously, we have extensive information on the different S-Bahn wagon types and their quantities available in the system at a given point in time. This allows us to calculate a detailed average of capacity of the S-Bahn train during the period under observation. From this, we can derive that the normal S-Bahn train with the full set of 8 wagons has a capacity of about 1100 people. The questions that remain for this transport type are: How many wagons does a S-Bahn train have on different lines? Does the amount of wagon length of a S-Bahn train remain constant on a line? Are the vehicle types distributed equally on lines or do some lines generally have newer vehicles with different capacities? These questions remain open, however, the main matter of sorting a general notion of capacity of transport types will be established.
U-Bahn capacity
For the U-Bahn we have a list of all the train types that were used during the period under observation but compared to the S-Bahn we do not know how many of each were available during different periods. We also face the same issue as with the S-Bahn in that we do not know how long the trains were, i.e. how many wagons made up a U-Bahn train for each of the lines or if this changed throughout the course of the day and period under observation. 
Particular to the U-Bahn network is the distinction that needs to be made between two different types of U-Bahn lines. The U-Bahn system was divided into Kleinprofil and Großprofil tracks, which could only run distinct train types. But we know exactly which line sections were Kleinprofil and Großprofil and this also remains constant throughout the period.  We also have a range of wagon types that was used for these types of tracks. We can find details about the capacity of these wagon types on Wikipedia.  This leads us to average out the capacity of the Berlin U-Bahn trains to be around 1,000 for the Großprofil trains and 750 for the Kleinprofil trains.
Tram capacity
We do have some detailed information available on the different tram wagon types in production during the period under observation and their capacity. However, putting together a standard capacity is difficult because there are, relative to the U-Bahn and S-Bahn, more models to contend with. We do have a statement from the BVG from the middle of the observation period in 1974, which stated that trams had a capacity of 195 passengers, with 55 seated and 140 standing places.  For simplicity's sake we are going with this capacity in the project, even though we have also some more detailed information on wagon types and their capacities.
Bus capacity
Regarding buses, we have detailed statistics on the seated capacity of buses during the observation period, courtesy of the Federal Statistical Office.  This indicates that the seated capacity of buses remained stable over the period under observation, remaining at around 40. But this information does not give us a clear picture of the total capacity, seated and standing. For this we turn to work done by the Bürger Pro Citybahn group, who calculated the capacity of different bus models using also data from BVG. This data showed that the capacity of buses of all types ranges from around 70 for smaller buses to 125 for double decker buses.  This generally matches our estimates using the data on seated capacity and the knowledge that standing capacity is normally around the same as seated capacity in buses. For simplicity, we are going with 100 as the average capacity of a bus during the period under observation.
