---
title: "Backstory: Part 1"
date: "2025-01-19"
author: "Noah J. Baumann"
---

I have always loved history, since I was a little kid my favourite things to watch have always been history documentaries. Once at around 13 years, a friend of mine invited me to his house and asked if I wanted to watch "300". I replied saying that I had it on DVD and had already seen it many times. My friends mom was shocked. A kid my age should not be allowed to watch such a brutal, gory movie she must have thought. Only later did I find out that while my friend had been talking about the 2006 Jack Snyder epic, I had been mistakenly been thinking of the docudrama "Last Stand of the 300" produced by the History Channel. When the mix-up became clear I felt a sense of embarrassment that I still associate with the moment.

Many years later, at 17, it was time to decide what degree I would study in university. Not an easy decision, not for me or my classmates. It was time to reflect, to weigh up what subjects I enjoyed learning and which would be a worthwhile, profitable endeavour. I knew that history was my favourite subject, I did well in it. But I also enjoyed and did well in other subjects, subjects with a more clear line to a lucrative career.

There is one moment I associate with the final decision being made. I do not remember if it was the deciding factor at the time but it is the memory that has stuck. It was a university fair organised at our school, final year students walked along the entrance hallway and auditorium where stalls had been set up and representatives from universities were advertising for their institution. In the hallway, after having talked to a few representatives and thought about my future, I saw my history teacher. We talked about my passion for history, my interest in continuing my learning in the subject and my reservations about what that would mean for my career.  Then he mentioned to me a key fact, a fact which reassured me that the decision was not as big as I was making it. He explained to me that even if I chose to study history I would still have options, I would not be jobless. Specifically he described how the CEO of Goldman Sachs had studied medieval history in his bachelor. He argued that the choice I made now would not determine what I would end up doing or not doing for the rest of my life. It would not be the do or die of my future success. Studying history could lead to great success. It seemed convincing to me and I decided to pursue the study of history for my undergraduate degree.

As a side note, at the time and until writing this I had never bothered to research this CEO of Goldman Sachs, either to verify the claim or to learn about this persons path in life. I do not think I had cared then or ever since to be a banker. I just needed to know that I still had options, that I could still be successful, that I was not signing myself into a life of studying history and never being able to do anything else. After some research, the story is true. Lloyd Blankfein is the person in question, the former Goldman Sachs CEO from 2006 to 2018. He went to Harvard University and majored in history before going to Harvard Law School. I am unsure if a history student of Harvard University should not necessarily be equated to a history student in any other institution in terms of perceived respectability and opportunity for success. I also hear that the path from history major to law school is quite the popular and lucrative one. I myself know a few people who have made a similar move, and for awhile thought about it as well.

During the whole period of my undergraduate I never waivered, never doubted that I had made the right decision. I was having too much fun, enjoying every one of my classes, and my new life in a new city. That does not mean that I was always on top of everything, readings were a lot and not all thrilling, some seminars I was tired and overwhelmed. The passion however, always remained. In hindsight, I am tremendously grateful to my parents who gave me the opportunity to study what I wanted and always encouraged me on this path. The privilege, perhaps in the subconscious then is at the forefront of my mind today.

Digital history was a totally unfamiliar concept to me at the time. It was only at the end of my degree that I had come in contact with it. In the last semester of my degree I took a class that was associated with the [Georgian Papers Programme](https://georgianpapers.com/), it was led by the late Arthur Burns (a teacher I hold close in my heart and who was incredibly influential in my life, even though he may not have known it). In this class, which had a truly interdisciplinary character, we were given free rein to choose a digitised but not yet transcribed document from the Royal Archives and make a digital edition presenting the document. Being the only native German speaker in the class it felt natural to me to pick a document associated  with the German dominions of the Hanoverian rulers. After a thoroughly enjoyable and enriching experience, not in small part due to an excellent teacher I ended up making a [digital edition based on a 1760 Hanoverian Treasury](http://www.courtofkinggeorge.com/play.php?template_id=332) document.

Not long after I had finished my undergraduate and had to ponder what was next? This was a difficult question, it weighted heavy and for the first time I doubted my choice of study. I had wished that I had studied something with a more clear-cut path to a stable job and career. A degree in computer science was my first thought. At the time of writing a degree in computer science seems no longer to be perceived as the same shoe-in for a cushy job in a booming tech sector that it was then. I spent the summer looking for jobs and internships, anything to get experience. I ended doing at internship at St. Cecilia Hall, a concert hall and instrument museum associated with the University of Edinburgh. During the internship I had the pleasure of being able to create an educational resource dedicated to a spectacular musical instrument [a Hass 1763 Clavichord](https://www.stcecilias.ed.ac.uk/secondary-school-visits-and-resources/hass-1763-clavichord/). It was a great pleasure and I got a lot of satisfaction combining my passion for history with the digital medium. Parallel to this I also started working to develop my skills in digital humanities. I went through courses of [The Programming Historian](https://programminghistorian.org/) and after a period of struggle had made up my mind that I wanted to continue to develop in this direction through a masters. I ended up going to Humboldt-University zu Berlin to do a masters in history with a focus on digital history.
